>> Marcy Sutton: Okay, so
let's talk about some modal layers and
things that can come up in focus
management, disabling background content.
So I have a few options here listed,
and you can use them
depending on your use case.
So the first one to talk
about is aria-hidden.
And this is a state that you can
toggle in your documents to suppress
accessibility information.
So I can put it anywhere in the dome and
it will take that whole tree of HTML and
strip its accessibility information.
What it doesn't do is
keep you from focusing
on interactive elements
inside of that tree.
So if you add tabindex of -1 to
any links and buttons of things,
that will make sure that you're not
landing on what we call ghost controls,
which can be a huge pain cuz you're like,
why am I tabbing onto these things that
aren't announcing anything
in the screen reader?
A tool that I'm reaching for
a lot more because
it's easier than managing aria-hidden and
tabindex is what is called a inert.
It's an attribute that's
being proposed in HTML.
There is a poly feel that you can use.
And it's an an attribute you can
just put directly on an element and
it will block those keyboard
interactions inside of a region.
So it's just one attribute instead of two.
And then the big one for disabling the
background would be displayed on like if
you can actually like change the display,
then it will just hide it from
everyone and that's the easiest.
So let's look at why modal
layers are important.
So I opened a screen curtain, it's like
the background layer of a modal window.
But I haven't disabled
anything in the background.
And I could still reach
that link back there.
So if I had a modal on top of this,
maybe it has a form to subscribe.
Or an alert that your login
session is about to timeout.
If I haven't sent focus into the layer in
front, I could be stuck back behind it.
And if I haven't disabled things in
the background with the aria-hidden and
tabindex, that's when I can
get into these situations.
So some patterns that this might
come up in dropdowns and menus.
So we saw some dropdowns earlier,
we wanna make sure we're
sending focus when those open.
Menus and things are similar.
Layers and models, if you have a whole
interface with layer sliding in.
I had a really great example of
the Blackboard Learn application,
they do a lot of that.
Their free demo is no more,
so I can't show it to you.
But there are a lot of web applications
that do that where the whole screen has
these layers sliding in.
And that's really critical to
disable those background layers.
View changes and delete.
So if you're sorting something and
you want to delete an item,
you have to send focus somewhere or
else it's just kinda dropped on
the floor depending on the browser.
Or it might have to start over all
the way from the top of the page.
And loading screens.
If you have an interstitial,
you wanna send focus to that so
that you're not stuck
back in that background.
And a quick mention of interactions.
So we saw on the New York Times' menu that
they used arrow keys, and those are links.
So it's a bit subjective whether
you should use the Tab key or
the arrow keys in these interactions
when you're in like a drop-down menu.
And I just wanted to say that it depends
on what type of a pattern it is.
And a resource that I really like for
testing patterns and
as a good starting point are the ARIA
authoring practices guide.
So they go through a lot of examples.
A lot of mechanics of interactions,
what's expected, what's the convention.
And so that is a whole wealth of
information that you can use when you're
building these patterns later on.
So links versus buttons,
this is another one that comes up a lot.
So I wanted to mention that links
navigate and buttons do actions.
So buttons kind of, I mean, there
a holdout from forms but we use them a lot
in web applications where JavaScript
is a big part of the experience.
And if it's not navigating
someone somewhere,
a button might be the right way to go.
I have an article that I wrote,
called links vs buttons in modern
web applications on my website.
You can go learn a bunch more about that.
And the reason I mentioned that is that
when you're building a drop-down menu,
whether it has links in it or
buttons in it might, that might
alter the interaction a little bit.
And it's always good to if you have that
setup, get some user testing to see like,
is it confusing to people?